There are occasions when I like to take my time, and have a leisurely approach, but most of the things I do, I like to do quickly. Or as, I think of it, efficiently. I like to do chores fast and in a concentrated period of time to get them over with, I like to walk fast. Sometimes this is good, and sometimes it is less so. I used to get in trouble all time time in my childhood piano lessons for completely ignoring time signatures and playing everything just as fast as I could.

Gradual progress is one of those things that I tend to be impatient about. Nothing gets vastly better rapidly, but it also (usually?) doesn't get horribly worse either. I agree with the *concept* being that slower movement enables a more thoughtful and adaptive approach, but OMG it's soooooo sloooow. 

It's 2019. Our environment has been in trouble for a LONG TIME. And just now we're "starting" to "do something" about it. TOOOO SLOOOOW. By the time we get actual solutions together, we'll have to do double the work because we waited so long. Plastic straw and bag bans are great, but it's too small, too slow. This is something that should have been done A LONG TIME AGO. We've had a long time to rediscover the habits of bringing your own bag, and establish others like bringing your own travel mugs. When I see people with plastic of paper bags now, I can no longer give them the benefit of the doubt that they just don't have a reuseable bag. Sure, sometimes you are caught not knowing you were going to need one. All the more reason to back the habit up a little, and make it part of your pattern to just *always* have one, even if you don't think you'll need it. Or just don't buy more than you can carry. But you can't tell me that you don't have a sizeable stash of free reusable bags. And if you don't, I'd really be interested to hear about how you've avoided them. As much as I try to refuse materials of any kind that I don't need, places and events loooooove to give away reuseable bags, especially low quality ones. I'd love to hear your secret. But in any case, these things are just so pervasive I find it really hard to believe that you don't have one at all. 

STOP BUYING BOTTLED WATER. I know you have a water bottle*. So use it! And consider it practice for when it becomes mandatory. 
[filter suggestions]
