Start where you are, use what you have, do what you can.
Arthur Ashe
====

There are a lot of problems in the world. It's so overwhelming to try to figure out how to process it all and do something constructive about it. Especially when there are so many Very Important Problems.

When I'm feeling overwhelemed, I try to make myself approach things from a different angle. In this case, I fully acknowlege that there is no way to tackle everything, certainly not all at once, and actually do a good job. And that other people are working on these things too. So, I'm sticking to placing most of my worry and attention on the Climate Crisis. After all, where will we fight, if we don't have a habitat? We can't continue quibbling about who gets human rights and who doesn't (though, doesn't the name kind of give away the answer? human rights. humans. all of the humans have rights. ehhhh), who gets to profit and prosper and who doesn't (everyone should have a chance to do their best!), who can use which bathrooms (seriously. there are still plenty of areas in the world that don't HAVE toilets, and we are wasting our time on bathroom divisions?), and how much hate is too much hate (really? we think any amount of hate is okay?), if we can't fill our loudmouth gasbags with oxygen and hydrate our longwinded nonsense tongues with water. 

When I was 8, in 1989, the U.N. warned of extreme weather conditions due to climate change, ultimately creating global chaos due to eco-refugees from uninhabitable regions, and increasingly limited resources. [https://www.apnews.com/bd45c372caf118ec99964ea547880cd0] 

Our teacher didn't tell us this exactly, but she did say that the environment was in trouble, and it would be up to us to figure out how to help. I took this to heart. My family reduced, reused, and recycled. We returned bottles and cans to the store for 10 cents each (usually collecting them for a school fundraiser). We composted in the backyard. In Michigan. Where still these environmentally-conscious efforts seems odd to people. 

Somewhere in late middle school or early high school, I realized that there weren't as many Adults as I expected. Just people older than me, who also had no idea what was going on, just trying to do their best with the information they had at the time. Usually. Also, lots of "adults" who simply never bother to take the time for critical thinking or situational awareness. But I like to give people the benefit of the doubt, and hope that they aren't intending to be inconsiderate assholes. Anyway. Once these truths were revealed, I realized how absolutely effed we were with regards to our environment. Years had passed, and no one seemed to be doing anything differently. Apathy and ignorance are going to kill us. 

Now, I get it. This is such a colossal issue, that it seems impossible to process, let alone deal with. We shut down with big issues when they get too big. It's why people are more likely to donate to causes with animals than with people. Animals are cute. We can project anything we want onto them (I wish we wouldn't but most people do.). People are complicated. We think we can rationalize reasons why it must be someone else's fault or problem, why should we have to help out. It's gross, but true. File under humans are both beautiful and horrible. And I think we all feel a bit of futility in knowing we are Just One Person, and being fully aware of the apathy and disregard for the collective that is rampant. Just as I clean (and dry!) a plastic container I tried not to obtain in the first place in order to properly recycle it without ruining the rest of the collected recycleables, there is someone somewhere dividing their waste into recycle and landfill, but burning it all anyway. But, I contend that living by example is the best thing you can do, that doing what you can, no matter how small, is still important. I do these things because I believe it is the right thing to do. 

The things that will make the biggest impact on the health and future of our habitat must come from much bigger sources. Companies. Policies. And all of these things move so sloooooooooooooooowly. I just don't trust people to care enough in time. It will only be after irreparable damage is done, and individuals see how it impacts them *directly* (what do you mean my avocado is $20!) that people realize how serious this is. And I'll be honest, I harbor a sizeable amount of anger toward climate change deniers who I'M GOING TO HAVE TO SHARE THE EARTH WITH once this happens. I am caring about the earth for ALL OF US, even you science-shunning idiots. And it annoys me that you are going to be the reason we are all effed. Idiots and capitalism are going to kill us. 

WHAT DO WE DO!

Start where you are, use what you have, do what you can.

For me, that means avoiding disposables and waste of any kind, even the compostables (they are made with energy, water, and labor too). When I leave the house, I act like I'm going camping, and not just for an open-ended walk. I take a water bottle, with a charcoal filter (I like this one: https://kishucharcoal.com/, and I purchase it locally to support small businesses. Piss off, Amazon.). I take my ToGo Ware bamboo utensils, an additional bag for treasures, sleeves of some sort. 

COFFEE
If I decide to have coffee, and haven't brought my travel mug, I either get my coffee "for here" (and you actually have to pre-emptively specify this now. it is no longer expected that you might want to stay and enjoy your coffee.) if they have actual mugs (sometimes they don't have "for here" mugs at all, but occasionally they'll at least have those teeny macchiato cups, which is what I like anyway. And real talk. If you don't have time to sip a macchiato *in* the coffee shop, what are you even doing with your life.), or if they don't...I JUST DON'T GET COFFEE. This isn't intended to be a punishment to myself, but it does help establish the habits of BYO everything. And I know that at some point in the day, I'll face an unavoidable incurrance of some sort of waste, and taking the opportunity to decline waste when I have control over that choice gives me the illusion that I'm doing everything I can.

BULK
BYO Containers, yo. It's not hard. Get them weighed by the shop (not everywhere trusts your scale math), and away you go with your tare number. Bring an extra one that you're not sure you need – you never know!)

Things we buy in bulk using our own containers:
Flour (organic AP, 00, whole wheat)
Sugar (organic cane)
Lentils (green, black, red)
Beans (black, garbanzo, adzuki)
Quinoa
Couscous
Dried pasta
Grains (barley, wheatberries)
Pretzels
Okay, sometimes jelly beans and gummies.

PRODUCE
First of all, find you a farmers market and give them all your money. Someday, the farmers will be the wealthy class because it turns out you can't eat money, and not everyone knows how to grow food. Do what you can to keep the distance between you and your food small. For lots of reasons. It'll be fresher, tastier, more nutritious, more of your money will get into the hands of the folks actually doing the work, less transportation and temperature control energy expended. And knock it off with putting everything in bags. Why are you doing that? And those of you who are putting a bunch of bananas in a bag you pulled off a roll, please explain it! They already have wrappers. And you're not going to eat the outside anyway. What are you keeping them from? They aren't likely to become separated, so why do you corral them? Trapping the ethylene gas in there will make your bananas ripen even faster, and we all know you bought more than you want and are going to throw out and not even compost them when they get three more freckles than you like.
