
“I want people to stop lying to themselves. If they want a convenience community, choose that. Say ‘we don’t want to choose small farms.’ I don’t give a shit if people eat meat — I think people should be vegans — but if they’re not gonna be, they should pay for [small purveyors].”

“Having a rich person save you is like the end of a Disney movie.... I’m frankly ashamed I got saved. You shouldn’t work 7 days a week for 12 years and need to be saved.”

>>I whole-heartedly agree. I don't eat a ton of meat, but when I do, I choose to support local farms treating their animals with the respect that they deserve. I certainly have Opinions about protein [see article on Protein wherein I complain about cheap carnivores, moral vegetarians, garbage vegans]. If you're going to eat meat, you should really treat it like the luxury that it is. Cheap meat is, quite frankly, disturbing. And that our society would rather perpetuate these unsustainable and environmentally detrimental practices than confront the actual cost of something is even more so. If the meat is cheap, you're just paying for it in another way, trading the environment, your health, quality of the animal's life, quality of farmer's life. You're voting with your wallet [See also, Voting With Your Wallet, wherein I explain the power of individuals in capitalism] to keep this happening. Nothing is free. And if it appears free (or cheap), YOU are the product. You can't run around saying you want to eat responsibly and then balk at the cost of doing so. We shouldn't be eating as much protein as we do, let alone meat. So let it be a luxury. And pay someone to do it right. At least do it because it tastes better. Is that a selfish enough reason?
https://sf.eater.com/2019/6/26/18760071/avedanos-butcher-shop-stays-open-bernal-heights-saved

“People stand on this soapbox in the Bay Area. They want to know where their food comes from, whether it’s organic and say they want to support places that are doing creative things. I don’t think it’s a matter of lying, but when it comes to the pocketbook, you’re going to go to the pho place that gets prison-grade meat because you don’t want to spend $30 on dinner, you want to spend $9. People still go out four to five times a week, but four of the five nights, they’re going to the smaller, more casual places. I don’t blame them, that’s where I go.”
>> Also consider eating out as a luxury and treat it that way. I bought $5 of organic produce that fed me for three meals. I went out and had a salad at a reputable cafe with responsible ingredients, and it was $15. Usually, I feel pretty dumb ordering salad out. I can do that myself. BUT. My salads are lazy. My salads are sometimes good, but often than not put the "function" in "functional". Leaves + whatever else I have = salad, no? But here, there was a wider diversity of cohesive ingredients than I would have done for myself, and I didn't have to do the dishes it would take to marinate and crisp tofu, make rice, peel carrots into sheets, and the bowl it was served in. I also got to enjoy the atmosphere. I want this cafe to be able to pay their rent, use good ingredients, and pay their staff fairly. So yeah. $15 stops seeming outlandish. If cheap is your measure of good, expect single-use materials, crappy ingredients, underpaid staff.
https://www.berkeleyside.com/2019/07/18/hogs-apothecary-will-close-on-sunday

Guess what? Produce is ALIVE. And has seasons. And climate change...changes...the...climate. So an already unpredictable activity (trying to work with nature to yeild food, even when it doesn't feel like it), is increasingly difficult. If you want avocados, you're going to have to pay for them. And sometimes do without.
https://www.berkeleyside.com/2019/07/26/high-avocado-prices-force-east-bay-restaurants-and-markets-to-pass-along-the-cost-to-customers
